Method	                                Description	                                                               Return Type

charAt()	                Returns the character at the specified index (position)	                                        char
codePointAt()	            Returns the Unicode of the character at the specified index	                                    int
codePointBefore()	        Returns the Unicode of the character before the specified index	                                int
codePointCount()	        Returns the number of Unicode values found in a string.	                                        int
compareTo()	                Compares two strings lexicographically	                                                        int
compareToIgnoreCase()	    Compares two strings lexicographically, ignoring case differences	                            int
concat()	                Appends a string to the end of another string	                                                String
contains()	                Checks whether a string contains a sequence of characters	                                    boolean

contentEquals()	            Checks whether a string contains the exact same sequence of                                     boolean
                            characters of the specified CharSequence or StringBuffer	   

copyValueOf()	            Returns a String that represents the characters of the character array	                        String
endsWith()	                Checks whether a string ends with the specified character(s)	                                boolean
equals()	                Compares two strings. Returns true if the strings are equal, and false if not	                boolean
equalsIgnoreCase()	        Compares two strings, ignoring case considerations	                                            boolean
format()	                Returns a formatted string using the specified locale, format string, and 
                            arguments	                                                                                    String
getBytes()	                Encodes this String into a sequence of bytes using the named charset, 
                            storing the result into a new byte array	                                                    byte[]
getChars()	                Copies characters from a string to an array of chars	                                        void
hashCode()	                Returns the hash code of a string	                                                            int 
indexOf()	                Returns the position of the first found occurrence of specified characters in a string	        int
intern()	                Returns the canonical representation for the string object	                                    String
isEmpty()	                Checks whether a string is empty or not	                                                        boolean
lastIndexOf()	            Returns the position of the last found occurrence of specified characters in a string	        int
length()	                Returns the length of a specified string	                                                    int
matches()	                Searches a string for a match against a regular expression, and returns the matches	            boolean
offsetByCodePoints()	    Returns the index within this String that is offset from the given index by 
                            codePointOffset code points                                                                     int
regionMatches()	            Tests if two string regions are equal	                                                        boolean
replace()	                Searches a string for a specified value, and returns a new string where the specified 
                            values are replaced	                                                                            String
replaceFirst()	            Replaces the first occurrence of a substring that matches the given regular 
                            expression with the given replacement	                                                        String
replaceAll()	            Replaces each substring of this string that matches the given regular expression 
                            with the given replacement	                                                                    String
split()	                    Splits a string into an array of substrings	String[]
startsWith()	            Checks whether a string starts with specified characters	                                    boolean
substring()	                Returns a new string which is the substring of a specified string	                            String
toCharArray()	            Converts this string to a new character array	                                                char[]
toLowerCase()	            Converts a string to lower case letters	                                                        String
toString()	                Returns the value of a String object	                                                        String
toUpperCase()	            Converts a string to upper case letters	                                                        String
trim()	                    Removes whitespace from both ends of a string	                                                String
valueOf()	                Returns the string representation of the specified value	                                    String